Creating a service
==================

Now that you have OpenLP set up the way you want, it is time to put it to use.

Everything you need to display will be in the left panel called *Media Manager*
under their respective categories. Using the media manager you will load new 
Media, Songs, Images, Bibles, or create a Custom slide as discussed earlier under
`Adding Media Content <http://manual.openlp.org/mediamanager.html#adding-media-content>`_. 

On the right side of your screen at the top is Service Manager. Anything you 
want to display should be in the Service Manager and preferably in the order you 
want to display it. To add your media you can click on the item, hold and drag 
your selection from the Media Manager over to the Service Manager or, after 
clicking the media or verse you want to use, click the + sign above. This will 
add your media to the service side at the bottom. Once it is in the Service 
Manager you can click on your item and drag and drop it in the order you want or, 
click the item and use the arrows below to move it up or down in the order you 
want. 

Displaying an Item
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you have all of your items needed for the service in your Service Manager
there are a few ways to get them to display on the screen. You can double-click
the item, click it once with the mouse and push the Enter key on your keyboard 
or, click it once with the mouse and click on the projector at the bottom of the 
Service Manager. Any of these methods will display your item on the screen. When
your item is displayed, it will appear in the Live windows just to the left of 
the Service Manager.

Moving through a Service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you have your first item displayed live you can move through the service in 
a couple of ways. You can double-click on each item you need displayed or, click 
it once and press enter. If your songs, verses, etc. are in the order you will 
be displaying them, you can use the Right Arrow key on your keyboard to move 
down through your service. Pressing the Left Arrow key will move up through the 
service. Every time you press the Left or Right Arrow key the next item will be 
displayed. 

Moving through a Song or Bible verses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you display a song or Bible verse with multiple verses you will need to 
move through them. When a song or verse is being displayed you will see the 
lyrics at the top in the Live window and how it actually appears on your display 
in the bottom Live window. To change slides you can use your mouse to click on 
each slide in the top Live window, use the left and right arrows under the top 
Live window or, use the Down Arrow to move down through the song or verses. 
Using the Up Arrow will move you from bottom to top. Page Up and Page Down will 
do the same thing. 

Adding a group of Images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

At some point you may have a group of images to display together. It may be 
pictures from a youth group adventure, bulletin announcements, or some other 
reason. Once you add your images to the Media Manager hold the Ctrl key on your 
keyboard and click each image you want to add as group. As you click the images 
they will remain highlighted. When you are done with your selections you can 
either click the + sign above the images or, click on one of the highlighted 
images, hold the mouse button and drag them over to the Service Manager side and 
place them where you need them. If you do not like the order the images are in, 
right click Images and left click Reorder Item. From this box you will be able 
to rearrange the order of your images by clicking on one and using the up and 
down arrows to move it to where you want it. If there is an image you do not 
want in your order, click on it and then click the :guilabel:`Delete` button. 
When you are done arranging your images click :guilabel:`Save`. If you need to 
add another image from the Media Manager to your group of images, left click the 
image you want to add and hold the mouse button and drag it over your group of 
Images and release the mouse button. You will be given two options, 
:guilabel:`Add New Item` and :guilabel:`Add to Selected Item`. If you click 
:guilabel:`Add New Item` your image will be separate from your group of images 
as another item. If you click :guilabel:`Add to Selected Item` your image will 
be added to your group of images.

Using the Continuous Loop Timer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you have a group of images you can easily cycle through them by using the 
Live Controller Bar timer in between the Live panes. Adjust the time delay for 
the seconds in between each image by adjusting the second timer. Just to the 
left of the second timer is the button to start the images looping. Click it 
once to start the continuous loop and once to stop it. You can also use the 
keyboard shortcut "L" to start and stop the continuous loop. The timer will also 
cycle through Bible verses or song lyrics. 

Using the "Blank to" Control
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On the live controller bar in between the live windows are three options to 
Blank your screen. Clicking on the down arrow next to the blank button will show 
you your three options.

`Blank Screen` Choosing this option will blank your projector to black like it 
was shut off. The shortcut for this option is "." (period on your keyboard 
without quotations).

`Blank to Theme` Choosing this option will show your blank theme only without 
lyrics or verses. If you are blanking a song with an assigned theme it will blank 
to that theme. If no theme is assigned or you are blanking a presentation or 
image, it will blank to the global theme. The shortcut for this option is "T" 
(without quotations).

`Blank to Desktop` Choosing this option will show your desktop wallpaper or a 
program that you have open on the extended monitor or projector. You can 
seemlessly switch between one program and OpenLP by Blank to Desktop. The 
shortcut for this option is "D" (without quotations).

Saving your service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now that you created your service, tested it and are ready for your worship 
service, you will want to save your service file. OpenLP will remind you to do 
this when you close the program or you can click the save button at the top of 
your service file. Choose the location you want to save your file and click 
:guilabel:`Ok`.
